.TH dbeaver-creds.h 3 "April 2026" "dbeaver-creds 0.0.3" "Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dbeaver-creds.h, get_dbeaver_credentials \- read and decrypt DBeaver's credentials-config.json.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <dbeaver-creds.h>
.PP
.BI "char *get_dbeaver_credentials(const char *" path );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B get_dbeaver_credentials()
locates DBeaver's
.I credentials-config.json,
decrypts it with AES-128-CBC, removes the 16-byte plaintext prefix that
DBeaver writes, and returns the resulting JSON payload as a NUL-terminated
UTF-8 string.
.PP
If
.I path
is non-NULL it is used directly. If it is NULL the platform-default path
is computed and used:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BR $XDG_DATA_HOME/DBeaverData/workspace6/General/.dbeaver/credentials-config.json
on Linux, falling back to
.B $HOME/.local/share
when
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
is unset.
.IP \(bu 2
.B $HOME/Library/DBeaverData/workspace6/General/.dbeaver/credentials-config.json
on macOS.
.IP \(bu 2
.B %APPDATA%/DBeaverData/workspace6/General/.dbeaver/credentials-config.json
on Windows.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, a pointer to a newly allocated, NUL-terminated UTF-8 string. The caller owns
the buffer and must release it with
.BR free (3).
.PP
On failure the function returns
.B NULL
and writes a diagnostic message to standard error. Failure modes include: the credentials
file cannot be located or read, the ciphertext is malformed (length not a multiple of 16),
the underlying crypto backend rejects the input, or memory allocation fails.
.SH THREAD SAFETY
.B get_dbeaver_credentials()
is reentrant. It does not read or modify any process-global state beyond the environment
variables it inspects to locate the configuration file.
.SH BACKENDS
The implementation is selected at build time by the CMake variable
.BR DBEAVER_CREDS_BACKEND :
either
.B native
(CommonCrypto on macOS, BCrypt/CNG on Windows) or
.BR openssl .
The choice is invisible at the API surface; only the linkage requirements differ.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.B #include <dbeaver-creds.h>
.PP
.B int main(void) {
.B "    char *json = get_dbeaver_credentials(NULL);"
.B "    if (!json) {"
.B "        return 1;"
.B "    }"
.B "    puts(json);"
.B "    free(json);"
.B "    return 0;"
.B }
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbeaver-creds (1),
.BR free (3).
